Before we tackle side effects and how we handle such effects with NgRx, two important things.
First, let's have a look at our reducer real quick and there, at this default return state case.
Thus far, I mentioned that this is important for initializing the state
and that is true. When NgRx starts up, thanks to us initializing the store module in the app module,
it essentially sends one initial action to all reducers and since this action has an identifier we
don't handle anywhere here and we'll soon see which identifier this is, no worries.
Since this is an identifier we don't explicitly handle, we make it into the default case,
therefore we return the state and since we have no prior state when this first action is emitted, we therefore
take this initial state.
So that's one important note but another thing about what I just said is also important.
This initial action dispatched automatically reaches all reducers. Well that is not just a case for
the initial action,
any action you dispatch, even your own ones, not just that initial one,
so any action you dispatch by calling dispatch always reaches all reducers.
It does not just reach the auth reducer because you are dispatching it in the auth service,
how would NgRx know that this is your intention?
It would be dangerous if that would be the result because that means you could never reach another
reducer with actions dispatched here in the auth service and there certainly are scenarios where you
might want to reach another reducer. So therefore, any action you dispatch always reaches all reducers.
This has an important implication,
it's even more important
that you always copy the old state here and it's super important that you return this default state here,
so the unchanged state because if a shopping list related action is dispatched, it still reaches the
auth reducer. In there of course, we have no case that would handle that action,
hence all these code snippets here don't kick in but therefore the default case kicks in and handles
this
and there, we absolutely have to return our current state,
otherwise we would lose that or cause an error and I can simply show that by adding a console
log here where I just print the state, so that we can see what's inside there.
And now let's go back to the application,
let's wait for it to reload
and please note I added console log in the auth reducer,
now let me do something related to the shopping list,
clear my console first then I delete.
You see I get my user printed here from the auth reducer but what we see here is that this is our auth
state slice.
Now this does not contain any information about the shopping list because the state slices,
so these state objects are managed on a per global state slice level, so the auth reducer is only caring
about its state which has a user property,
the shopping list reducer only cares about its state but actions reach all reducers and therefore,
it is important that we return our default state for this state slice here,
otherwise if we wouldn't do that, if we would return null here or anything like that, we would basically
drop our state here in the auth reducer when something is dispatched in another part of the app.
So that's the first important thing,
the next important thing is that since our dispatched actions reach all reducers, you really have to
ensure that your identifiers here are login across the entire application because these auth related
actions here are not just handled by the auth reducer,
they also reach the shopping list reducer.
Now of course, we in this application we have identifiers that don't really interfere,
add ingredient and login are quite different but for bigger applications, it is of course possible that
you have duplicate identifiers across different parts of your app.
Now since they have to be unique for the entire application because actions reach the entire application,
I would recommend a technique called prefixing.
That means you edit your identifiers here a little bit to have one extra piece of information that
really makes them unique. In NgRx world,
you typically use square brackets and then you add the name of the feature you are dealing with, so in
this case, that would be shopping list and then you could still use the uppercase notation here or you
also use a normal text casing here
so to say. Now I will convert like this, it's not a must do but it is recommended especially for bigger
apps to avoid clashes,
now of course any prefix that ensures uniqueness would be fine
but here I'll just implement a pattern
you'll also find in the official NgRx docs.
So here I'll always use the feature name in square brackets first and then basically a plain English
description of what it does.
So let's quickly do that for all these actions here,
it's especially interesting here for start and stop edit because we could probably imagine that we
have different parts in the app where we also start and stop editing,
so that's my shopping list actions file updated
and now let's also be consistent and do the same for the auth actions even though it's very unlikely
that we use login and logout anywhere else in the app but still, doesn't hurt.
You don't need to change your constant name, so that stays uppercase login and uppercase logout,
it's really just about the values you store inside of these constants. And with that, we now enhance this
a little bit more,
now let's focus on these side effects.